# Title: Cost of International Education Affects on the Happiness of Countries
# Link to archival record: Link to the archived copy of the project, including persisistent identifiers
10.5281/zenodo.15377561
# Contributors: Bulleted list of contributors (optional ORCIDs)
Ethan Wang: 0009-0004-8157-6614
# Summary: Description of your project, motivation, research questions, and any findings
For this project, I've identified two research questions. The first being, "Is there a relationship between the average cost of studying higher education in a country and how happy the citizens are?". The second research question is, "Do countries with higher happiness scores offer more affordable education for it's citizens?". My project will be leveraging two data sets, a "World Happiness Index Report" and "Cost of International Education". The plan is to leverage data from both these data sets to create an analysis and find whether there is a relationship between a countries happiness and the affordability of higher education. I wanted to examine this relationship because I've seen on the news of higher education nowadays being way to high and pricing out the middle and lower class as salaries can hardly keep up with the higher prices. I wonder if countries who create wider acessbility to higher education through putting a cap on how much universities charge for tuition contribute to the happiness of their countries.

Based on our findings, we fail to reject our first hypothesis as we found no correlation betweeen the average cost of higher education of a country and a country's happiness score as the coefficient was at around 0. We also fail to reject our second hypothesis since I also found no correlation between affordability and a country's happiness score. We determined through our scatter plots that gdp/wealth as a sole factor does not have any correlation with how happy the citezens of a country are. We don't doubt that affordability of higher education contributes to happiness but there are plenty of other contributing factors that can affect how happy a country is. As life is complex, there isn't just one thing they can solely make someone happy, there are some many factors such as how citizens view social support in the country, how they perceive corruption, and their freedom to make life choices.

# Data Profile
The two datasets I'm using are from Kaggle: Cost of International Education (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/adilshamim8/cost-of-international-education) and World Happiness Index Report (https://www.kaggle.com/code/gcmadhan/world-happiness-index-report).

The first dataset, Cost of International Education, has a variety of columns that provide information on tuition and living expenses for students for individual countries and universities. It additionally classifies based on education level, bachelors and masters, while also creating an index for the living costs. This all usefful information that will be needed to compare educational accessbility worldwide. I chose this dataset as it provides clear financial metrics relating to international higher education which allows me to facilitate a an analysis of educational affordability and accessibility across the world. Additionally, it allows me to evaluate the correlation between average education costs and a nation's happiness and how they both conincide. According to Kaggle, this dataset has a usability score of 10.0 and retains high marks for completeness and credibility. The provenance and transformations made to the data set are sourced from organizations such UNESCO, OECD's Education at a Glance reports, Mercer's global surveys, Numbeo data, U.S. Department of State official visa fees, ISO for international student health insurance plans, and IANDA API for accurate USD conversions. The licensing for this dataset is through Attribution 4.0 International (CC by 4.0) which allows users to share and adapt the material for any purpose, even commercially. The only attribution is to provide appropriate credit and provide a link to the license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

The second dataset is the "World Happiness Report, it has already been cleaned and is provided as a more structured version of the World Happiness data. It's been made available through Kaggle and it has compiled key indicators such as GDP per capita, social support, life expectancy, and more indicators. I chose this dataset because it has a column that provides a GDP per capita score for over 200 countries and how it contributes to a country's happiness which is important in calculating an affordability index to test whether there is correlation with a country's happiness score. It compiles tge abbual World Happiness Report scores from the Gallup World Poll data which is published by the Sustainable Development Solutions Network. It has a high Kaggle usability score as the data has been vetted for compelteness and credibility while having the proper licenses. The dataset is released under the Apache License 2.0 and I'm allowed to use and redistribute the data as long as apply and cite the Apache license to my work.

# Findings: Description of any findings including numeric results and/or visualizations

Our first hypothesis looked to find a relationship between the average tuition of higher education by country and a countries happines score from the World Happiness Report. Numerically, tuition and happiness has a pearson corelation between tuition and happiness of about -0.059. This correlation coefficient is very close to zero which indicates to us that there is no linear relationship between the two factors; there was no clear trend of the plotted dots. The analysis tells us that the sole factor of how much tuition costs cannot predict people being happier within a certain country. For our second hpyothesis that looked at if affordability has a relationship with how happy a country is. To create a numerical value for affordability, I created an affordability index which is a country's GDP per cpaita divided by the average tuition of that country. When calucalting a correlation bewteen the two, the correlation coefficient came out to be 0.079 which is close to 0 and tells us that there is no correlation between the two. There are a cloud of points on the scatter plot but it isn't necessarily trending positively nor negatively. There are some key outliers though such as Denmark who boast a high affordability score while also having a high happiness score. Additionally, some Gulf states had high affordability but had low happiness scores.

In conclusion, there isn't a strong link between education cost and how happy a country is. One would think that more affordable college would increase a country's happiness. Though, I think happiness is a lot more complex than just how affordable college is. College could be affordable but their government could be committing mass atrocities on the people or taking away their right to speak or act freely. I'd like to explore further but focus on controlling some confounders to see if it would affect the analysis any differently.

# Future work: a brief discussion of any lessons learned and potential future work
I think one lesson I learned is that the conclusion of an analysis might not always be what you expected. There might not be a clear negative or positve relationship between to factors and that's ok; it's doesn't mean that the research and analysis was a waste of time. Both of my scatter plots yielded a measely 0 correlation coefficient which also told me that a lack of a strong linearity in itself is a valid finding. Additionally, the visualization helped a lot in understanding why the coefficient value was what it was. Sometimes, the answer just doesn't support a straightofrward relationship  that your looking for. Another lesson I learned along the way as I was working on this project was to create folders to keep my project, data, and scripts tidy. I think it helped a lot when I sorted files based on what they were for as it kept the fold in itself more organized and reduced a lot of confusion when navigating through this entire process.

I think in potential future work, if I were to explore these research questions further, I'd want to incorporate more metrics to determine how much weight the affordability of higher education is compared to other contributing factors to happiness. We determined that the affordability of university doesn't necessarily mean that a country will be more happy. Though, we can assume that it can contribute to happiness, I'd want to where it is on the priority list compared to other factors that contribute to happiness. I'd also want to delve in to the economies of each country and research what dollar amount is considered affordable in those countries. Internationally, there isn't a flat monetary amount that is able to encompass every country's affordability metric. Researching more into these confounding variables and attempting the control them would be next step to this research. Lastly, I would consider using a a machine learning model rather than solely a correlation coefficient to search for complex patterns and relationships between to variables. Clustering countries by how similar they are through multiple dimensions could highlight what sub-groups can educational costs could play more of an impact.

# Reproducing: Sequence of steps that are required for someone else to reproduce my results
1.Downloading all necessary imports that are need to complete the project through using a requirements.txt
2.Importing the Cost of International Education and World Happiness Index datasets from kaggle
3.Cleaning the data set of any null values, removing white spaces, and harmonizing some column names to make naming conventions the same for countries who have alternative ways to identify itself
4.Integrate the two datasets together to keep only necessary columns for analysis such as the country, Average_Tuition,H appiness_Score, and GDP_per_capita; Country serves as the primary key in the merged.csv
5.Conduct the correlation analysis that produces a correlation coefficient for the two hypothesis while also creating graphs that visualize the results of the analysis.

# References: Formatted citations for any datasets used in your project
Cost of International Education (Dataset)
Shamim, A. (2022). Cost of International Education [Data set]. Kaggle. https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/adilshamim8/cost-of-international-education
World Happiness Index Report (Notebook)
Madhan, G. (2021). World Happiness Index Report [Jupyter notebook]. Kaggle. https://www.kaggle.com/code/gcmadhan/world-happiness-index-report/notebook#Read-and-Analyse-Data
